# EventTrackerProject
#### Description
This project was designed to track your workouts, whether that is a strength session, a recovery session or an endurance session. Whenever you perform a workout, you are able to log the Name of the workout, the Implement used during the workout (dumbbells, kettlebells, barbells, etc), the primary lift that was executed, the sets and repetitions that were performed, the duration of the workout and the accessory work performed for that session. This project was designed so that you can input anything between Endurance work, recovery work and main work. That means you do not always have to enter all of the details of the session, except for the name of the session. If you are simply performing a recovery session or an endurance session, you can simply enter "Lacrosse Ball" for the implement used or "Concept2 Rower" if you are performing an endurance training session. This week, we were required to update this project using JavaScript to build a front end for the project. Now, when the application and run, the user will be greeted with a webpage instead of going through PostMan to verify that there is full CRUD. My webpage shows a heading of Event Tracker! From there, the user can input an ID of the workout they would like to retrieve. If there is no workout that can be retrieved, there will a return of "Workout not found." Additionally, there is a button that allows the user to show all workouts. There is also an option from there to delete a workout by the ID along with update a workout using the ID. Additionally, there is an option to view the total number of workouts in the database that changes dynamically when a workout is updated or deleted. UPDATE: For this project, we were tasked with creating a fully functional front end for a project that used Angular and TypeScript. This weekend's updated project presents the user with a webpage that allows them to see all of the workouts that have been logged. It also allows them to add a new workout via the form at the bottom of the page. Once the created workout is submitted, it will show in the form at the top of the page. Additionally, there is a feature that shows aggregated data. This display near the bottom of the page allows the user to see all of the workouts that they have tracked. This number will automatically be updated if the user chooses to add a new workout, update a workout or if they choose to delete a workout. In the table that displays the workout data, there is an option to the right hand side of the workout that allows the user to either Edit(update) or Delete a workout. If the user chooses to delete the workout, the workout will immediately be deleted and will no longer be shown. Also, the total number of workouts tracked will be reduced by the number of workouts that were deleted. If the user chooses to Edit a workout, they will be shown an additional form that displays all of the current workout information. This allows the user to Edit the fields that they would like to update based on which field they would like to change. They can choose to update every field in the workout or just one -- depending on what they want. With either option, the user will see an accurate number of workouts that they have logged, totally.

### Lessons Learned
This was the first project that I created that used RESTful API (which stands for representational state transfer) along with JPA to create a full CRUD (CRUD stands for Create, Read, Update, Delete) application that works for every operation. This means that you can query every workout, you can look for an individual workout by ID, you can input a workout, you can update a workout by changing a section of the workout that needs to be updated, and you can delete a workout from the database. The lessons I learned from this project was how much more efficient and easy RESTful API's can be when you are using it correctly. I also felt like this project taught me the in's and out's of using REST and how it interacts with the other pieces of the program. I definitely feel like this project helped me cement my understanding of all of the functions of REST and made me feel much more confident in my abilities in not just REST but in Java also. I am very excited to see how much more can be done using this technology. UPDATE: The lessons I learned during this weeks project were very much the same as the previous week in that I was able to apply the things I learned during the week to further perform CRUD operations with DOM manipulation. That specific part of the project really helped me further understand how things can be done in many different ways and using JavaScript to perform CRUD operations was very interesting. The concepts of this weeks material were further solidified through this project. UPDATE: What I learned this weekend was very similar to the previous weekends, however I was able to learn a ton about Angular. I was also able to feel a lot more comfortable with completing tasks in Angular. Manipulating the data in the database was quite a bit easier using the methods we learned this week compared to last week. To me, Angular just makes more sense than the previous methods used to create CRUD operations. This was one of the first times I felt comfortable performing the tasks required of me, however I did also learn so much for this weekends homework. I truly can see now how these skills will be required and useful in the future.

### Technologies Used
The technologies used for this project were REST, JPA, SpringToolSuite, MySqlWorkbench, Terminal, MacBook Pro, SpringBoot, MAMP and the PostMan. UPDATE: Additionally, this week we used JavaScript to design the frontend allowing the user an additional way to manipulate the database. UPDATE: This weekend we were able to use all of the previously mentioned technologies, but we also included Visual Studio, TypeScript and Angular. PostMan was especially useful this weekend for the project as we were able to see if the routes were working or not. This helped me determine where the error was more easily. Additionally, we used CrossOrigin routing in our JPA/REST project in order to reach through that program and perform CRUD operations in a much easier (in my opinion) way.

### What was fun?
What was fun during this project what that I feel very much more confident in my abilities with Java and REST. It was very fun to see that I was able to not only complete the required functions, but once I could tell that something wasn't working exactly how I wanted it, I was able to play around with the code while knowing what I was doing. When things would't work, I did not immediately know how to fix it, but I did know what I needed to check on to find the answer. Also, I knew where to look to find the answer to the issue. Overall, this was a very fun project and it further helped me in my understanding of what is required of me in future projects. This project was fun but also it was incredibly challenging for me to get everything working. It definitely feels like the rollercoaster is going up again. UPDATE: What was fun about this weekends project was that I definitely felt like I had a better grasp on what was required of me and that helped with my confidence in Angular. Also, what was fun about this weekend's project was that it was much easier to see what was going wrong where. I felt like I had a good grasp on what was supposed to happen, therefore, when what I was doing wasn't working the way I expected, i could more easily look at the correct code to troubleshoot what was going wrong or what I needed to change to get it to do what I wanted. 
